SMARTBRAIN – TERMS OF USE AND DATA PROTECTION STATEMENT

By using the SmartBrain smartphone app, you agree to the following terms and conditions:

1 PURPOSE OF SMARTBRAIN
The SmartBrain smartphone app is developed by the University of Basel and aims at training
working memory.

2 TARGET AUDIENCE

2.1 FREE USERS
SmartBrain can be used by everyone that wants to train working memory, specifically people that
experience difficulties with their working memory. For this use case, no Study-Code needs to be
entered in the app and a randomized Study-Code will be generated automatically. App users can
freely choose a username to personalize the app experience. This username is stored only locally
on the device and is not transferred to the database.

2.2 STUDY PARTICIPANTS
SmartBrain is intended to be used in scientific studies to investigate the trainings efficacy.
Thus, it will be used by participants of ongoing studies. Study participants will receive an
anonymized Study-Code from the study personnel which needs to be entered at first launch of
the app. This Study-Code is stored locally on the device and is also transferred to the database.
It allows an anonymous storage of the data which can be used for study purposes. In addition,
participants can freely choose a username which is used for personalization of the app
experience.


3 TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS FOR USING SMARTBRAIN
The SmartBrain smartphone app is designed for Android and iOS smartphones.
Minimum required Android version: ANDROID 5.0 (LOLLIPOP)

4 HOW DOES SMARTBRAIN TRAINING WORK?
The app users will have the option to choose from three different tasks that aim to train
working memory. The first tasks trains the auditive component, the second the visual
component and the third the spatial component of working memory. All tasks include distracting
stimuli presented within the tasks. All tasks are adaptive, meaning they increase or decrease
in difficulty according to the user's performance. This allows a training on the correct
difficulty level for each person. The duration of each task can be set individually, so that
the working memory components can be trained according to the individual needs.

5 DISCLAIMER
You use SmartBrain and all its content at your own risk. Neither the University of Basel nor
any other person or institution involved in the development, creation, or provision of this
smartphone app is liable for any direct, indirect or accidental damage resulting from access,
use or inability to use this smartphone app, or any errors or omissions in its content.

6 DATA PROTECTION

6.1 THIRD PARTY SERVICES TO ACCESS SMARTBRAIN
SmartBrain is distributed via the Google Play Store for Android phones and via the Apple
App Store for iOS phones. Registration at the respective distributor's app store is required
according to their terms and conditions (Apple Inc., Cupertino, USA, for iOS and Google Limited,
Dublin, Ireland and/or Google LLC, Mountain View, USA for Android devices).
The Google Play Store privacy policy and additional user terms and conditions can be found at:
https://play.google.com/intl/ALL_ch/about/play-terms/
Apple's App Store privacy policy and additional terms and services can be found at:
https://www.apple.com/chde/legal/internet-services/itunes/chde/terms.html

6.2 DATA PROCESSING WHILE USING THE APP FEATURES AND DATA TRANSFER
SmartBrain only stores anonymized data which can not be linked back to the person using
the app. The following data will be collected:
- Anonymous Study-Code (only if participation in study)
- Information about training progress (reaction times, which button was clicked in which
  sequence, accuracy of answers, which distractor and items were shown and which language
  is used)
These data are transferred to our instance of Google Firebase from where they are downloaded
regularly to local servers of the University of Basel (Switzerland).
The user terms and conditions for Google Firebase can be found at:
https://firebase.google.com/support/privacy.
The collected data will not be shared with any further third party.

6.3 TECHNICAL PERMISSIONS FOR SMARTBRAIN ON YOUR SMARTPHONE
The required access permissions for SmartBrain have been reduced to a minimum. The app needs
permission to access the internet to transfer the anonymous training performance data.
Access to local phone storage is required to temporarily save the collected data and display
daily performance statistics. SmartBrain has no access to any private data on the smartphone. 

7 COPYRIGHT
SmartBrain and its content (in particular, stimuli items, design, logos) are protected by
copyright and must be used only for private, non-commercial purposes. Any requests for consent
must be submitted in advance in writing to the University of Basel, Transfaculty Research
Platform Molecular and Cognitive Neurosciences (MCN).

8 COSTS
SmartBrain is provided free of charge. An internet connection is required for certain features
(opening links to external websites and transfer of the anonymized user data). This may incur
connection fees depending on your contract with your mobile provider.

9 APPLICABLE LAW AND PLACE OF JURISDICTION
This user agreement is subject to Swiss law. The place of jurisdiction is Basel, Switzerland.

10 PRIVACY POLICY AMENDMENTS
The University of Basel reserves the right to modify this Privacy Policy at any time if
necessary. This Privacy Policy was last updated on 11.12.2023.

11 WHO IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE SMARTBRAIN APP
University of Basel, Transfaculty Research Platform, Molecular and Cognitive Neurosciences
(MCN, www.mcn.unibas.ch)

12 CONTACT US
Contact us if you have questions, suggestions or if you encounter issues at:
SmartBrainBasel (at) gmail.com

13 DELETE COLLECTED DATA
In case you want us to delete all your collected data, contact us via email at:
SmartBrainBasel (at) gmail.com
Please include the Study-Code (manually entered or automatically generated) which can be
found on the Info Screen in the app. Without the Study-Code we may not be able to track
and delete your data in the database.
